Australian Open 2012: Venus Williams out through illness

Page last updated at 21:15 GMT, Monday, 9 January 2012
E-mail this to a friendPrintable version
Australian Open
Venue: Melbourne Park Date: 16-29 January Time: 0000 GMT Coverage: Watch live on Eurosport, singles finals on BBC Two/website; listen on BBC Radio 5 live; text commentaries and reports on the BBC Sport website
Venus Williams has won five Australian titles - but never in the singles
Venus Williams has been forced to pull out of the Australian Open, which starts on Monday, through illness.

The former world number one revealed that she was suffering with Sjogren's syndrome in September last year.

A statement on her official website said: "I regret to announce that I am withdrawing from the 2012 Australian Open.

"After several months of training and treatment, I am making steady progress to top competitive form."

The 31-year-old previously pulled out of January's ASB Classic in Auckland but was hopeful of being fit for the first grand slam of the year.

The statement continued: "My diet and fitness regimen have allowed me to make great strides in terms of my health and I am very close to being ready to return to WTA competition.

"I have every intention to return to the circuit in February."

VENUS AT AUSTRALIAN OPEN
Continue reading the main story
Best achievement was reaching the final in 2003 only to lose to sister Serena in three sets
Only other appearance in last four was in 2001 when she lost semi-final to Martina Hingis
Has lost in the quarter-finals five times, most recently in 2010 to Li Na
Retired during third round match in 2011 against Andrea Petkovic
The auto-immune disease, which can cause fatigue and joint pain, caused her to pull out of last year's US Open.

She then announced that she was suffering with the ongoing medical condition, for which there is no known cure.

Williams has won seven grand slam singles titles, including five at Wimbledon.

Her only past success in Melbourne has come in the doubles, where she has won the ladies title four times with sister Serena and the mixed doubles once in 1998 when she partnered Justin Gimelstob.

World number one Caroline Wozniacki, a former doubles partner of Williams, said the American's health must come first.

"She's been unlucky with the virus thing," Wozniacki said. "I'm not completely sure what it is exactly, but the most important thing is the health.

"Tennis, it's a game. I'm sure she'll come back and fight and try to come back to the top again. But most of all, the most important thing is that you're healthy.

Hopefully she'll be 100 percent healthy by February."