Live Carling Cup - Crystal Palace v Cardiff

GOALFLASHES AND MAJOR INCIDENTS (all times BST)
No need to reload page, content below updates automatically. More info
To get involved use Twitter (via hashtag #BBCFootball ) or text us via 81111 with FOOTBALL before your message. (Not all contributions can be used. Messages will be charged at your standard operator rate.)
By Chris Bevan

Crystal Palace boss Dougie Freedman, speaking just before kick-off, on his virus-hit side: "I've looked a few of the players in the eye and decided to play them. They've been in their sick beds the last few days but it's such a vital game. Missing them in the final day [of training] is a blow but they've been training for the last five months and they have that physical condition. So they've had a couple of tablets and get them out there."
1942: Two commentaries for you from Selhurst Park to choose from tonight. If you give this page a manual refresh, you can take your pick from BBC Radio 5 live, or BBC Radio Wales. I suspect the latter might be slightly biased towards Cardiff though.
From Palace fan, via text: "Re 1901. Would a Premier League team choose relegation and a Carling Cup victory over another season at the top of English football?

I guess we should ask Birmingham City fans that!?!
nedthomasisablu on Twitter: "Peter Whittingham v Wilfried Zaha will be a great battle. Both Premier League standard."
Crystal Palace v Cardiff line-ups 
Crystal Palace: Speroni, Ramage, McCarthy, Gardner, Parr, Zaha, Dikgacoi, Jedinak, Ambrose, Martin, Murray. Subs: Price, Wright, Garvan, Scannell, Easter, O'Keefe, Andrew. 
Cardiff: Heaton, McNaughton, Hudson, Turner, Taylor, Cowie, Whittingham, Gunnarsson, Ralls, Mason, Miller. Subs: Marshall, Kiss, Gerrard, Earnshaw, Conway, Blake, McPhail. 
Referee: Mike Dean (Wirral)
1933: BREAKING CARDIFF TEAM NEWS Cardiff also make 10 changes from their FA Cup exit, in their case at the hands of Stoke. Fit-again defender Kevin McNaughton is among those coming back into their starting line-up.
1932: Cardiff, meanwhile, were too good for Blackburn in the last eight, with Rovers boss Steve Kean famously claiming afterwards that he had "forfeited" the match. Nice one Steve. The Welsh side have also overcome Oxford United, Jordan Rhodes (sorry, I mean Huddersfield Town), Leicester and Burnley to get this far.


1930: It's fair to say that both these teams have earned their place in the last four. Palace, as you will probably remember, only went and beat Manchester United at Old Trafford in the last round. Earlier in the competition they sprang another surprise against Wigan and have also seen off Crawley Town (of League Two) and two high-flying Championship teams in Middlesbrough and Southampton to get to this stage.
From Eaglesteve, via text: "Re 1901. As stated earlier. Far from ready to get promoted and Dougie and the team are doing a great job. Whatever happens tonight we are proud."
markccfc1 on Twitter: "Cardiff's away game at Doncaster Saturday is more important than tonight. Promotion is a must this season."
Jon8Edwards on Twitter: "All the Palace fans saying prefer cup win to promotion... they are no where near promotion...anyway, think it will be a battle."
1924: BREAKING PALACE TEAM NEWS: Crystal Palace make just the 10 changes from the side that lost to Derby in the FA Cup on Saturday. Three of the players who had been hit by that virus have recovered to start - Paddy McCarthy, Anthony Gardner and Mile Jedinak. Cardiff news, and full-line-ups, in just a tick.
1921: What else is happening tonight then? Plenty, starting with the Johnstone's Paint Trophy southern final. The first leg is at Underhill with Barnet welcoming Paolo di Canio's Swindon. There's a few league fixtures too. In League One Gary Johnson takes Yeovil to promotion-chasing Sheffield United and in League Two managerless Bristol Rovers, without a league win since the end of October, travel to Hereford. There's four fixtures in the Blue Square Bet Premier, Luton v Stockport the pick of those matches.
hibbertN1 on Twitter: "Re 1901. Can't Cardiff just have both? Sounds a tidy way to end the season to me..."
From anonymous Cardiff fan, via text: "Re 1901. After seasons of waiting, a one-off game just won't do; regardless of the Wembley factor. We want Man City, Liverpool, United and the rest every week. Can't wait to see them down here at Cardiff. Have the cup Palace. We want it all... "
CRYSTAL PALACE v CARDIFF CITY
(Carling Cup semi-final 1st Leg, 2000 GMT)
Alistair Magowan reports: "Crystal Palace boss Dougie Freedman has admitted he would not know his team until 1700 GMT this evening such is the extent of that virus which is in the camp but he said: 'I have no worries with playing young players and never have done.' Cardiff boss Malky Mackay says although victory over Palace at home this season has little significance, he admits the game could be a 'tight affair.'"
OptaJoe on Twitter: "0 - Tonight will be the first League Cup semi-final without a top-flight side involved since Bolton vs Tranmere in 2000. Novel."
CRYSTAL PALACE v CARDIFF CITY
(Carling Cup semi-final 1st Leg, 2000 GMT)
Alistair Magowan reports: "Both Crystal Palace and Cardiff have reached the FA Cup final in recent years, but neither team have made the League Cup final in their history and will want to become the first second-tier side to reach the final of this competition since Birmingham in 2001. Eight places separate them in the Championship, with Cardiff third, but Eagles manager Dougie Freedman's biggest concerns are about the health of his players after his squad was struck by a virus."
From Kris, via text: "I'd go for Option 3) Promotion to the Premiership via a day out at Wembley by winning the play-off final.
From Andrew in Cardiff, via text: "Re 1901. Has to be winning the Carling Cup. You can get promoted any year but it's not often a chance to play in Europe comes along."

1910: By the way, the Crystal Palace team news should be interesting tonight. A virus has sidelined half-a-dozen of Dougie Freedman's players and the Eagles boss says he will ask his players to be honest about whether they are fit enough to play. His Cardiff counterpart Malky Mackay has no such problems because both his injury doubts, defender Kevin McNaughton (calf) and striker Rudy Gestede (ankle) have recovered from knocks.
From Palace fan, via text: "I would definitely take a League Cup success over promotion. We are not quite ready for the Premier League, need one more season for squad to gel. Silverware and European football would be unreal."
Palacefan2k8 on Twitter: "Re 1901. Defiantly beating Man City or Liverpool FACT every time Palace are promoted to the Premier League they are relegated."

Palace fan tristanjt on Twitter: "Re 1901. Would rather win the cup this season - not ready for the Prem yet..."
1904: So, what are you waiting for? Tweet the commentary via the hashtag #BBCFootball, Tweet me @chrisbevan_bbc or text in via 81111 (UK). I'm waiting...
1901: With the below in mind, I'm going to repeat the question I posed (well, sort of) before last night's FA Cup tie. Palace and Cardiff fans (and anyone else for that matter), if you could choose now would you take 1) Having a day out at Wembley and beating Manchester City or Liverpool to win the Carling Cup, or 2) promotion to the Premier League?
1858: And, while both teams have been losing finalists in the FA Cup fairly recently - Palace in 1990, and Cardiff in 2009 - neither side has ever got further than the semi-final of the League Cup.
1856: When I say 'long awaited', I mean it too. Apart from some lower-division titles, Crystal Palace's list of honours starts and finishes with the 1991 Zenith Data Systems Cup. As for Cardiff? Well, they might have won the Welsh Cup 22 times, but they have not had quite so much joy in the English knock-out competitions: Their first and last major success was the 1927 FA Cup.
1854: Yep, a rare trip to Wembley for a cup final, the chance of some long awaited silverware and the possibility of a Europa League place are the prizes up for grabs for the Eagles and the Bluebirds. But who will grab them with both, er, talons? Palace have home advantage in the first leg this evening, with the return taking place in Wales on 24 January.
1850: Evening folks. In a season this crazy, it actually makes sense that a Championship side - either Crystal Palace or Cardiff City - will play Liverpool or Manchester City in next month's Carling Cup final. But which one? We might have a better idea after tonight...