Son of Green Bay Packers coach found dead: police


inShare
2
Share this

Email
Print

Related News
Dangerous Saints add ground threat to air supremacy
Mon, Jan 9 2012
Adult son of Green Bay Packers missing: police
Mon, Jan 9 2012
Whooping crane migration given green light by FAA
Mon, Jan 9 2012
Tebow and Broncos stun Steelers in OT thriller
Mon, Jan 9 2012
Giants crush Falcons, earn playoff date with Packers
Sun, Jan 8 2012
Analysis & Opinion
Sports review 2011 – A memorable year for the wrong reasons
Packers dilemma: To rest or not to rest?
Related Topics
U.S. »
Sports »
By John Rondy
MILWAUKEE | Tue Jan 10, 2012 1:09pm EST
(Reuters) - Oshkosh police confirmed Tuesday that the body of the adult son of Green Bay Packers offensive coordinator Joe Philbin was recovered from the Fox River near the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh campus.

Michael Philbin, 21, had been last heard from during a cell phone conversation early Sunday in Oshkosh where he was visiting friends, about the same time that authorities received a report that a person had fallen into the river.

A dive rescue crew from the Winnebago County Sheriff's Office searched the river and found Philbin's body on Monday, according to Oshkosh Police Officer Joseph Nichols.

Philbin, who lived in Ripon, Wisconsin, was reported missing Sunday night.

His father Joe Philbin joined the National Football League's Packers in 2003 and has served as offensive coordinator since 2007.

In a statement on the team's web site Tuesday, General Manager Ted Thompson said that the Packers family was "saddened" to hear of Michael Philbin's death.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with Joe, his wife, Diane, and the Philbin family as they cope with their loss," Thompson said. "This is an emotional and difficult time for them, and we ask that everyone respect their privacy. All of us in the Packers family share in their grief."

The defending NFL champion Packers had the best record in the NFL this season. They play the New York Giants in a playoff game on Sunday at Lambeau Field in Green Bay.

(Reporting by John Rondy; Editing by Mary Wisniewski and Paul Thomasch)