Inter Milan enter the race for Tevez
January 10, 2012 -- Updated 1810 GMT (0210 HKT)

Manchester City's Carlos Tevez captained the English leaders to FA Cup success last season.
STORY HIGHLIGHTS
Inter Milan president confirms Italian club's interest in Manchester City's Carlos Tevez
Massimo Moratti says Inter made a serious approach to the English team
Inter's local rivals AC Milan also in talks with Premier League leaders over Tevez transfer
City lose appeal over red card received by captain Vincent Kompany in FA Cup defeat
(CNN) -- Carlos Tevez's future appears to lie at the San Siro -- but will it be with AC Milan or Internazionale?
Inter's confirmation that the Manchester City striker is on the Italian Serie A club's wanted list means a two-way race between the stadium-sharing rivals, with France's Paris Saint-Germain lurking as an outside chance.
"We don't do anything just for fun; if we do something it's because we think it could be a good deal," Inter president Massimo Moratti told the club's website.
"We were interested in finding out how things stood, if there was any room for maneuver. We'll see if we're successful, if we can bring him here or not."
Who are January's top transfer targets?
Milan had been in pole position to sign the Argentina international, who has not played a club match for three months after falling out with City manager Roberto Mancini over his refusal to warm up during a European Champions League game.
 FIFA looks to end match-fixing Messi wins third world player of year award
However, Mancini's desire to raise funds for his own signings means that Milan's offer of an initial loan deal has not been gladly received.
Milan chief Adriano Galliani has indicated that the Italian champions are prepared to wait until the end of the January transfer window as they seek a replacement for Antonio Cassano, who is sidelined after a heart operation.
Moratti also suggested there is no need to rush any deal.
"There are three weeks left. There's plenty of time," he said. "It's not a question of being optimistic or not, just waiting to see what happens."
Mancini, however, is hoping for a speedy solution as he seeks to bolster a squad hit by suspensions, injuries and the departure of Yaya and Kolo Toure to the African Cup of Nations.
"I hope there will be a good result for him in January because he has not played for three months," the former Inter coach said ahead of Wednesday's English League Cup semifinal first-leg tie with Liverpool.
Mancini had hoped to have captain Vincent Kompany available for that home match, but the defender's appeal against the red card he received in Sunday's 3-2 FA Cup defeat by Manchester United was dismissed by the English Football Association on Tuesday.
The Belgium international will be sidelined for four matches, including the away leg and Premier League clashes with Wigan and third-placed Tottenham.
Inter downplayed reports suggesting that Dutch playmaker Wesley Sneijder -- a longtime target of City's rivals United -- could be involved in any deal for Tevez.
"Regarding reports from the British media, Inter Milan technical director Marco Branca wishes to underline and clarify the situation immediately that there were no discussions whatsoever regarding Wesley Sneijder during our meeting in London with representatives of Manchester City," the club said in a statement.