Dangerous Saints add ground threat to air supremacy


inShare
Share this

Email
Print
Related News
Tebow and Broncos stun Steelers in OT thriller
Mon, Jan 9 2012
Giants crush Falcons, earn playoff date with Packers
Sun, Jan 8 2012
Saints march to blowout win over Lions
Sun, Jan 8 2012
Texans crush Bengals for first playoff win
Sat, Jan 7 2012
Steel curtain could fall on Tebow's playoff hopes
Fri, Jan 6 2012
Analysis & Opinion
Presidential campaigns, sports writing, and the fine art of pretending
Dark holiday season for Detroit Catholic Church as archdiocese downsizes
Related Topics
Sports »

By Simon Evans
Mon Jan 9, 2012 9:17pm EST
(Reuters) - If Super Bowl favourites the Green Bay Packers watched 'wildcard weekend' they will have seen plenty of exciting football but probably only one team that will be truly worrying them - the New Orleans Saints.

Sean Payton's team look like champions in the air and on the ground and every bit as effective as the 2009 Super Bowl winning class.

If they can get past the San Francisco 49ers, an admittedly big 'if', they are set for an NFC championship decider, probably against the Packers.

Tim Tebow and the Denver Broncos provided the story of the weekend with the dramatic overtime upset win over the Pittsburgh Steelers and the New York Giants and Houston Texans both offered evidence of how they were able to make the post-season, but it was New Orleans that provided the real quality.

Facing a tough task against the Detroit Lions, the Saints ran out 45-28 winners and quarterback Drew Brees continued his remarkable season with three touchdowns and 466 yards passing.

But while Brees, the cool and composed face of the franchise, led the way once again, there is so much more to this New Orleans team than just a wonderfully talented quarterback and reliable receivers.

Just as in 2009, Payton has assembled a 'three headed monster' running back trio. Pierre Thomas remains from the previous version, Reggie Bush has gone but Darren Sproles has been an inspired addition this season and Chris Ivory is powerful and fearless.

The offensive line showed their all-round effectiveness again, helping the Saints to a post-season record 626 yards of total offense.

That line, which largely nullified the threat of the imposing Detroit defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh, features Pro Bowl starters Jahri Evans and Carl Nicks at guard and Jermon Bushrod at left tackle. It gives Brees ideal protection and also opens up holes for the running backs.

"Our O-line did as great a job as they have done all year. They did a good job of keeping me clean. They are also versatile and take pride in our ability to be balanced," said Brees after the game.

The result against Detroit was 167 yards rushing to go with Brees' masterful passing and, while that was an impressive performance, it is not entirely atypical.

New Orleans had the sixth best rushing offense in the NFL this season, averaging 132.9 yards a game and 4.9 yards a carry.

"I think we have a real good backfield," said Saints receiver Devery Henderson.

"The guys run the ball well. When we get the running game going, good things happen. We can do it either way, running the ball and going through key blocks or with the passing game."

It is a potent combination and one that the 49ers defense will have to be at their very best to overcome.

(Editing by Nick Mulvenney)