Katy Perry was the big winner at this year's People's Choice Awards, winning five prizes including favourite female artist and song of the year, for ET.

But the star wasn't at the show, which took place at the Nokia Theatre in LA, after pulling out earlier this week.

It would have been her first major public appearance since her divorce from Russell Brand was announced.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 won four awards, including favourite movie and ensemble film cast.

Continue reading the main story
I moved to LA eight years ago this week with my mom. It is so insane to be standing up here right now. It is hard to describe to you

Emma Stone
The stars of the film, which also picked up best action movie and book adaptation, were also absent from the show.

Despite her non-appearance, Perry took to Twitter to celebrate her victories.

"THANK U to every1 who voted for me for the @peopleschoice tonight!" she wrote.

"We won so many! Now I need to get more book[shelves] 2 successfully display them!"

The People's Choice is the earliest of Hollywood's annual awards shows.

Unlike the Oscars or the Golden Globes, however, the winners are chosen by fans.

See pictures of the winners and stars on the red carpet

Crystal trophies
Ellen DeGeneres, Nina Dobrev, Chloe Grace Moretz, Adam Levine from Maroon 5, Lea Michele and Demi Lovato were among the winners who accepted their awards in person.

"For all the Rachel Berrys out there, this one's for you guys,'' said 25-year-old Michele, referring to her awkward, unpopular on-screen character - for which she won favourite comedy TV actress.

Robert Pattinson's latest film Water for Elephants won best drama movie
Star of The Help, 23-year-old Emma Stone, won both the favourite movie actress and favourite comedic movie actress.

"I moved to LA eight years ago this week with my mom, who's right there,'' she said while accepting her pair of crystal trophies.

"It is so insane to be standing up here right now. It is hard to describe to you.''

TV winners included How I Met Your Mother, Two Broke Girls and Hot in Cleveland, while Neil Patrick Harris won the TV comedy actor award for Supernatural.

Winners in the film categories included Hugh Jackman for best action star; Bridesmaids for best comedy movie; Water for Elephants for best drama movie; Adam Sandler for best comedic movie actor and Ryan Reynolds in Green Lantern for favourite superhero.

Morgan Freeman was given the ceremony's first ever film icon award.

"When I found out that I'd been nominated... I decided to look up icon,'' the Hollywood actor said.

"Here's what I found: The first definition said an icon is a tiny picture on a computer screen that represents a file.''

Selected winners:

Favourite movie actress - Emma Stone, The Help & Crazy, Stupid, Love

TV comedy actress - Lea Michele, Glee

TV drama actress - Nina Dobrev

TV comedy actor - Neil Patrick Harris

Comedic movie actor - Adam Sandler

Movie star under 25 - Chloë Grace Moretz

Band - Maroon 5

Drama movie - Water For Elephants

TV drama actor - Nathan Fillion

Comedy movie - Bridesmaids