Bill Beaumont will apply for RFU chairman role

Page last updated at 09:44 GMT, Thursday, 12 January 2012
E-mail this to a friendPrintable version
Bill Beaumont supports England's policy of blooding new players
Bill Beaumont is putting his name forward to become the next Rugby Football Union chairman.

"I will allow my name to go forward," he told BBC Radio 4. "If people within the union feel that I could do a good job, then I think so as well.

"I don't know if being a former top player qualifies you to be good at administration. But I'd like to think that I've got something to offer."

BILL BEAUMONT
Continue reading the main story
William Blackledge Beaumont, born Chorley, 9 March 1952
Played his entire club career at lock forward with Lancashire side Fylde
Played 34 times for England, 21 of them as captain, leading his country to the Grand Slam in 1980
Made seven Lions appearances, being called up as replacement in New Zealand in 1977 before being selected to captain the tour party to South Africa in 1980
Managed the 2005 Lions tour to New Zealand
Spent 14 years as one of the two team captains on the BBC's A Question of Sport
Is the managing director of a family textile business in his home town Chorley
The winners of the annual English County Championship are awarded the Bill Beaumont Cup
Paul Murphy has been acting chairman since Martyn Thomas resigned in July.

Thomas survived a vote of no confidence in September after threatening legal action, should a report by judge Jeff Blackett into the exit of predecessor John Steele be made public, before leaving the RFU altogether in November.

Former England captain Beaumont, who won 34 caps between 1975 and 1982, added: "I wouldn't say that I'm the favourite. There's no doubt there'll be a lot of good people who'll fancy their chances as well.

"It goes to a nominations process and I will allow my name to go forward if people in the union deem that suitable."

The 59-year-old Lancastrian, who has been awarded an OBE and CBE, is also a former British Lions captain.

He was tour manager of the 2005 Lions tour to New Zealand and has represented England on the International Rugby Board, of which he is now vice-chairman, since 1999.

Beaumont says he is "excited" about the future of English rugby as the RFU plans for the Six Nations, giving his backing to the policy of blooding new players.


"It's exciting times," he said. "Certainly after the World Cup, I think the squad needed to break up. A lot of experienced players have served England extremely well in the past, but you've got to look to the future.

"These are exciting times to move forward. We've got a build-up to a World Cup in 2015, which will be absolutely outstanding, but there are a lot of important decisions to be made before that happens."