Australian Open 2012: Ward, Robson & Broady win in qualifying

Page last updated at 11:00 GMT, Thursday, 12 January 2012
E-mail this to a friendPrintable version
Australian Open
Venue: Melbourne Park Date: 16-29 January Time: 0000 GMT Coverage: Watch live on Eurosport; singles finals and one men's sem-final on BBC Two/Red Button/HD channel/website; listen on BBC Radio 5 live; text commentaries and reports on the BBC Sport website
Ward reached the second qualifying round at the Australian Open in 2010
Britain's James Ward, Laura Robson and Naomi Broady won their opening matches in qualifying for the Australian Open in Melbourne.

Ward resumed a set down against Spain's Inigo Cervantes-Huegun after rain stopped play on Wednesday, and fought back to win 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-3) 6-1.

Robson began her campaign with a 6-3 6-4 win over American Melanie Oudin after converting her 10th match point.

Naomi Broady opened with a 6-4 5-7 6-3 win over Ashley Weinhold of the USA.

MEN'S WILDCARD ENTRIES
Continue reading the main story
Lleyton Hewitt (Aus)
James Duckworth (Aus)
Greg Jones (Aus)
Marinko Matosevic (Aus)
Ben Mitchell (Aus)
Jesse Levine (US)
Jeremy Chardy (Fra)
Tatsuma Ito (Jpn)
Ward, the 32nd seed in qualifying, had looked in trouble after losing a tight first set on Thursday but won the second when play resumed and dominated the decider. The British number two next faces Czech Ivo Minar.

Robson, seeded 14th, was cruising at 5-0 in the second set against 2009 US Open quarter-finalist Oudin before a nervous period when she twice dropped serve.

But the Melbourne-born Londoner held her nerve at the third time of asking and she will next face Italy's Anna Floris.

Players have to win through three rounds of qualifying to reach the main draw.

Andy Murray has been seeded fourth in the men's singles, while three British women have qualified as of right for the main draw - Elena Baltacha, Anne Keothavong and Heather Watson.

WOMEN'S WILDCARD ENTRIES
Continue reading the main story
Casey Dellacqua (Aus)
Ashleigh Barty (Aus)
Olivia Rogowska (Aus)
Madison Keys (US)
Aravane Rezai (Fra)
Shuai Zhang (Chi)
Former world number one Lleyton Hewitt has been given a wildcard into the main draw, which takes place at 2300 GMT on Thursday ahead of the start of play on Monday 16 January.

There are two all-British pairings in the men's doubles draw, Colin Fleming and Ross Hutchins, and Jamie Delgado and Jonny Marray.

Jamie Murray partners Australian Paul Hanley, while Ken Skupski is playing with Belgium's Xavier Malisse.

Keothavong is the only British woman in the doubles competition, playing with Germany's Mona Barthel.