Ali Carter considering retirement after World Snooker Championship

Page last updated at 06:44 GMT, Wednesday, 11 January 2012
E-mail this to a friendPrintable version
Current world number 11 Carter was runner-up in the Welsh Open in 2010
Ali Carter has said he is considering retiring from the sport after the World Snooker Championship.

The former world number two last won a ranking tournament at the Shanghai Masters in September 2010.

The 32-year-old says his lack of form and battle with Crohn's disease, an inflammatory bowel condition, means that it is hard to stay motivated.

"Snooker is part of my life, but it's a part of my life I'm not enjoying any more," Carter told BBC Sport.

Continue reading the main story
You know, 15 years ago all I wanted to be was a snooker player and now 15 years later all I want to be is not a snooker player
Ali Carter
Former world number two
"I'm not really enjoying being a snooker player at the moment at all. That's for many different reasons but I'll wait and see how things are at the end of the season for me."

Carter was diagnosed with Crohn's disease in 2003, a condition with symptoms similar to ulcerative colitis, which prompted Manchester United midfielder Darren Fletcher to announce an indefinite break from football in December.

"My health is a big issue with my Crohn's disease and all the travelling and going abroad all the time makes it even more difficult to control," added Carter.

"But I'm in a fortunate position where I've achieved and won a few tournaments so I'll wait and see what my options are."

The former Welsh Open winner exited the first two ranking events of 2011, the Australian Open and the Shanghai Masters, in the first round.

At the 2011 UK Championships, he beat Robert Milkins, but then lost 6-2 to Mark Allen in the last 16 - prompting Carter to threaten to retire on Twitter stating: "I'm going to retire at the end of the season! And I can't wait!"

ALI CARTER'S CAREER
Continue reading the main story
1996: Turns professional
1999: Wins young player of the year award
2006: Moves into top 16 in the world
2008: Loses World Championship final to Ronnie O'Sullivan after making his first professional 147 break
2009: Wins the Welsh Open, beating Joe Swail 9-5
2010: Wins the Shanghai Masters beating Jamie Burnett 10-7
2011: Loses to Mark Allen in the second round of the UK Championship in York
The Essex-born player reached the World Championship final as recently as 2008 - losing 18-8 to Ronnie O'Sullivan - but believes now could be the right time to change his career path.

"You know, 15 years ago, all I wanted to be was a snooker player and now, 15 years later, all I want to be is not a snooker player, so that needs looking at," Carter said.

"If I don't enjoy something, I'm not going to do it. I haven't got the will in me at the moment to do well.

"I'll see where I am in the rankings, see what position I'm in, see how I am mentally and physically and go from there."