Jeremy Guscott Q&A


Quins number eight Robshaw and Saracens back Farrell both make the cut

Former England and Lions centre Jeremy Guscott answers your questions after England reveal their squad for the Six Nations.
Among the topics Jeremy discusses this week are:
- England's Six Nations squad
- Potential England captains
- His England starting XV
- Whether anyone can beat Wales to the Six Nations title
If you have any questions for Jeremy, please use the post form on this page. He will answer as many as possible but not every question submitted can be used.
Who missed out on selection for England that you think should have been included?
Rich, Peterborough, UK
Hi Rich, I'm tempted to say Saracens hooker Jamie George, but I guess his lack of first team games makes it understandable. He needs to move from Sarries to get a first team place. Outside that I believe Stuart Lancaster has picked a very strong squad and the Saxons 32 looks good as well. There's certainly going to be lots of competition.
Who do you feel should be named England captain for the Six Nations?
Daryl Guard, England
Hi Daryl, my vote goes to Northampton flanker Tom Wood. I believe he picks himself and he reminds me a lot of Richard Hill, the former Saracens and England legend. He goes about his business without any fuss, if there is a ball to be won on the floor he tries to win it. If there is a tackle to be made, he makes it. If he had to run 70 yards to make a covering tackle, he would have the fitness to do it. Whoever Lancaster picks, it has to be a forward.
What's your starting XV if everyone is fit from Lancaster's squad?
Josh Lampard, England
Hi Josh, right now, if everyone were fit, my starting line-up would be: 15 Foden, 14 Ashton, 13 Tuilagi, 12 Farrell, 11 Sharples, 10 Flood, 9 Youngs, 8 Morgan, 7 Wood, 6 Croft, 5 Lawes, 4 Palmer, 3 Cole, 2 Hartley, 1 Corbisiero
Do you think that England need a specialist seven, like Wales have with Sam Warburton and Australia have with David Pocock?
Haider Al-Qaddo,Wales

Charlie Hodgson could start in place of the injured Toby Flood
Hi Haider, ideally yes, if there was a stand-out seven in the mould of those you mention, I would pick him - but I don't believe there is. Calum Clark appears to be the only out and out seven but he's only played once in the Premiership at open-side. I could be wrong, but I believe Wood has played the most at seven and therefore wouldn't be too much out of place.
Doesn't Charlie Hodgson's selection for England stink of a massive step back for a squad that seems to be so forward-looking? Admittedly, his distribution is good, and his choking when kicking for posts would be negated by Farrell's presence, but we saw in 2008 in New Zealand that he can't defend at international level.
Alonso, England
Hi Alonso, it's a case of needs must at the moment. With Flood injured, you do need some experience alongside what could be a new midfield of Farrell and Barritt or Turner-Hall. Hodgson has been performing well for Saracens and his defensive abilities have not been exposed as yet.
International rugby is another level up from domestic and European, not always physically, but always mentally, but I'm sure England could implement the same defensive strategies as Sarries have to help look after Hodgson. England could go all out for inexperience and go for Farrell at 10 alongside Barritt and Turner-Hall, but that would be a very brave move indeed.
Why has Lancaster left out Nick Easter, one of the best performers in the Premiership and Europe this season?
Hugh, UK
Hi Hugh, I agree that Easter has been good for Quins in all competitions. However, Lancaster has decided to leave out most players that are unlikely to make the next World Cup. I'm of the opinion that Easter has had more average-to-poor games than average-to-good or very good for England and I'm not surprised he's left out. There are too many more options with younger players that need the game time to be persisting with Easter.
Is Billy Twelvetrees unlucky not to be involved in the EPS after his 29 points against Wasps? He showed he could provide a capable extra boot and is surely a future 10/12 option to rival Farrell?
Simon, England

Toby Faletau and Sam Warburton spearhead a formidable Wales outfit
Hi Simon, Twelvetrees has played well when given the opportunity, He's just not provided a hard enough cutting edge in a lot of games. That may sound harsh but compare him to the impact Tuilagi and Farrell have on games. Whether in defence or attack, every time Tuilagi gets the ball or is going to make a tackle there's a sense of anticipation. Is he going to smash through and score or is he going to smash the attacker?
Just as important, every time Farrell steps up to kick at goal there's an expectation he will make it. As a player, to get recognition, you have to have that expectation and just now Twelvetrees doesn't have it. That's not to say he won't in the very near future. He just needs more game time and to be first selection at Leicester.
Exeter have gained a strong foothold in the Premiership, yet only one Chiefs player, Tom Johnson, has made it into the England set-up, the Saxons 32. Are Exeter being overlooked by England simply because they are not one of the 'old school' Premiership sides?
Simon, England
Hi Simon, I can't think of many other Exeter players that deserve a spot. Maybe, if Exeter get into the top four and become more high profile, their players will get more noticed. It took Saracens to win the Championship before their players started getting recognition. Exeter have some way to go and in my opinion aren't being overlooked.
Hi Jerry. How much an advantage is having a few club games at Twickenham if that club then reaches the Premiership final? I am all for promoting England Rugby and was amazed at the turn-out for Harlequins-Saracens before Christmas. But, for clubs further north, that could never have a Premiership game there, it seems unfair, as I am sure the likes of Saracens will be more at home come final time, which is a high possibility this year. Thoughts?
Kim, England

Calum Clark will be missing for Northampton during the Six Nations
Hi Kim, fair point, I don't think we should stop the games at Twickenham on that basis though. Those games benefit the game as a whole, which trumps the fact that other clubs don't get the opportunity to play at Twickenham.
Hi Jeremy, good to see England finally moving on. I fear for that side on paper up against the resurgent Welsh, though. Can you look past Warburton's Wales for the Six Nations?
Joe Martin, Wales
Hi Joe. Wales will be one of my favourites to win the Six Nations this year, along with Ireland and France. Whoever wins the opener between Ireland and Wales will be in a good position so that's a huge game for both teams.
Ireland's next game is as hard, if not harder, given their record in Paris, whereas Wales have Scotland at home. Ireland and Wales are very evenly matched over their last eight games, with four wins each, but Wales won the last two in Cardiff and New Zealand. If Wales win in Dublin they should be favourites to win the Championship.
With Shane Williams now gone, who would you pick for Wales at number 11 if George North is 14?
Daniel, Spain
Hi Daniel, I guess it's between the likes of Aled Brew, Tom James and Alex Cuthbert, who looks like the latest youngster to be in favour after being called up to the last Wales squad. I don't think they would go far wrong with Cuthbert, but I rate the others as well, although James and Brew sometimes make unforced errors.
Dear Jeremy, as a Saints fan, I am very happy that the England coaching staff have finally recognised the quality potential England players we have at the club, naming Phil Dowson and Calum Clark, who have been outstanding. However, I am very concerned that during a crucial stage in the season, with Saints aiming for the play-offs, we have 10 of our starting 15 away on international duty for two months. Do you think we should have international breaks in the season, like Premier League football, so clubs don't suffer?
Scott Pullen, England
Hi Scott, I do think the clubs who are without their internationals throughout the Six Nations have a disadvantage and it needs to be sorted out. The call for a global season needs to be looked at closely, as this would leave the clubs with all their players available for all their matches. I agreed with Saracens owner Nigel Wray when he said the southern hemisphere must be laughing at the northern hemisphere in terms of the way our season is organised.