Ryan Seacrest 'can't imagine life' without 'Idol'
The "Today" show may be considering Ryan Seacrest as a potential successor to Matt Lauer should the position become available, but the Hollywood heavyweight is still devoted to "American Idol."

He said as much at during the Television Critics Association's winter tour, explaining to press, “I can tell you I can’t imagine life without 'American Idol.' I have a deal with NBC Universal already…but I can’t comment on that.”

Talk then turned to "Idol's" competition, “The X-Factor” and “The Voice,” and that's when the gloves came off!


Executive Producer Ken Warwick said that "Idol" “is the show that produces the stars…I mean, Leona Lewis was a one-and-a-half hit star, not like Carrie Underwood.”

Executive Producer Cecile Fort-Coutaz was a little kinder, saying that "competition is good for everybody, and what the viewers choose to do is not in our control.”

Randy Jackson, on the other hand, found humor in comparisons of "Idol" and "The Voice."

“We will never rip off 'Star Trek' with the spinning chairs like 'The Voice' did," he joked. Ouch!

But what about the other shows on Fox, like "Fringe," "House," "Terra Nova," "Breaking In," and that reported "Glee" spin-off?

According to Fox exec Kevin Reilly, “House," “Terra Nova” and “Fringe” may or may not return. "Right now we are looking at everything and we will decide very soon," he said at the panel.

But, Reilly added that there are two things you won’t see on Fox: No more of Jonah Hill's "Allen Gregory," and definitely no "Glee" spin-off show. Reilly says the characters on "Glee" will graduate but they will not get their own series.

And Fox also wants to beef up its comedy schedule with a comedy block. It’s bringing back the on-again, off-again show “Breaking In,” but this time with “Will & Grace” alum Megan Mullally as a boss. And to go along with "Breaking In," they are also putting the super successful shows "New Girl" and "Raising Hope" along with it for a 3-2-1 punch.

Keifer Sutherland is also back with a new program on Fox called “Touch," which he'll star in and executive produce. In the show, Sutherland has an autistic son who has special powers to forecast what will happen before it occurs.

But that wasn’t the best news regarding Sutherland. The best news is that yes, there will be a “24” movie that will begin shooting this year! That update seriously made my day.

What do you think of Fox's announcements?